# Container Sheets

### Container Sheet Basics

Each sheet in the Excel workbook represents a container which is a similar object to a table. Column headings in a sheet define the control setting, with rows representing values. The following column headers are typically found on each of the Excel sheets:

- [Name (required):](06.Setting-Details/Name.md) A whitespace-free name for the field. Think of this as the name you would give this field in a database.
- [DisplayName:](06.Setting-Details/DisplayName.md) A human-friendly label that will be displayed above the input box for the field on the user interface. This can contain rich text written in [Markdown.](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
- [Description:](06.Setting-Details/Description.md) A longer description that can be displayed in a tooltip on the user interface to more fully explain the field.
- [Type (required):](06.Setting-Details/Type.md) The name of the [data type](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/built-in-types) of the given field, such as integer or string.
- [ControlType (required):](06.Setting-Details/ControlType.md) The type of field interface that the user will input their data into, also known as a [form control](https://www.w3.org/TR/2002/WD-xforms-20020118/slice8.html). Examples are a textbox ([Text](./05.Control-Details/Text.md)) or calendar date selection ([Date](./05.Control-Details/Date.md)), or a [checkbox](./05.Control-Details/CheckBox.md).
- [Required:](06.Setting-Details/Required.md) Indicates whether the field is required.

## Control Type Settings (Additional Container Columns)

The three required columns, [Name,](06.Setting-Details/Name.md) [Type,](06.Setting-Details/Type.md) and [ControlType](06.Setting-Details/ControlType.md) do most of the work in generating your DataPortal, but there are many additional settings that can be applied to some fields by adding columns. Which settings are available varies by [ControlType](06.Setting-Details/ControlType.md). For full details, visit the page for each control type:

- [AppRun:](05.Control-Details/AppRun.md) Specifies a button that runs a Composable [DataFlow](../DataFlows/01.Overview.md) by ID.
- [Category:](05.Control-Details/Category.md) Select one or more predefined values. Also see [Categories.](05.Categories.md)
- [CheckBox:](05.Control-Details/CheckBox.md) Checkbox for Boolean types.
- [Computed:](05.Control-Details/Computed.md) Read-only field computed from other values.
- [Date:](05.Control-Details/Date.md) Select a date
- [DateTime:](05.Control-Details/DateTime.md) Select a date and time
- [HyperLink:](05.Control-Details/HyperLink.md) Link to another page within Composable or on another site.
- [Label:](05.Control-Details/Label.md) Additional static text. Supports Markdown formatting.
- [Link:](05.Control-Details/Link.md) Special control type representing the entry point to the DataPortal.
- [NumberFormatting:](05.Control-Details/NumberFormatting.md) Editable number field with customizable formatted display when not editing.
- [Page:](05.Control-Details/Page.md) Link to a new container in a 1-1 relationship with the current container.
- [Phone:](05.Control-Details/Phone.md) Enter a phone number.
- [Pill:](05.Control-Details/Pill.md) Select one or more of several predefined values. Also see [Categories.](05.Categories.md)
- [QueryView:](05.Control-Details/QueryView.md) Display the results of a Composable [QueryView](../QueryViews/01.Overview.md).
- [QueryViewChooser:](05.Control-Details/QueryViewChooser.md) Select a row from a Composable [QueryView](../QueryViews/01.Overview.md) and use its values to populate other fields.
- [Radio:](05.Control-Details/Radio.md) Select one of several predefined values. Also see [Categories.](05.Categories.md)
- [Rating:](05.Control-Details/Rating.md) Give a whole number rating within a customizable range.
- [Reference:](05.Control-Details/Reference.md) Choose an instance of another container within the same DataPortal
- [Spin:](05.Control-Details/Spin.md) Select a numerical value.
- [SSN:](05.Control-Details/SSN.md) Enter a Social Security Number.
- [Tab:](05.Control-Details/Tab.md) Split some fields of a container into a visually distinct tab.
- [Table:](05.Control-Details/Table.md) Display a table of instances of a child container.
- [Text:](05.Control-Details/Text.md) Enter a short string.
- [Textarea:](05.Control-Details/Textarea.md) Enter a long string.
- [User:](05.Control-Details/User.md) Choose a user.
- [Voice *(experimental)*:](05.Control-Details/Voice.md) Enter a long string by automatic transcription of spoken words.
- [YesNo:](05.Control-Details/YesNo.md) Set a boolean field with buttons.
- [ZIP:](05.Control-Details/ZIP.md) Enter a 5 digit ZIP code
