---
title: Composable Docs
summary: Technical Documentation for the Composable DataOps Platform
authors:
    - Composable Analytics, Inc.
date: 2014-08-12
some_url: https://docs.composable.ai
---

# Enabling Azure AD Authentication for Composable

## Step 1: Create an App Registration in the Azure Portal

1. Navigate to the **Azure Portal** and create a new **App Registration**.

## Step 2: Add Composable Redirect URLs

In the App Registration, add the required redirect URLs. Composable may request Microsoft Online to redirect back to either:

- The **login page**  
- The **register page** (if the user hasn't set up an account in Composable yet)

The redirect URLs should be in the following format:

https://mycomposableinstance.xxxx.com/CompAnalytics/Account/AzureADRegister.aspx
https://mycomposableinstance.xxxx.com/CompAnalytics/Account/AzureADLogin.aspx

## Step 3: Enable ID Tokens

!!! note
    Ensure that the **ID Tokens** box is checked in the App Registration settings.

In the **Azure Portal**, navigate to your **App Registration** and follow these steps to enable ID tokens:  

1. Go to the **Authentication** tab in your App Registration.  
2. Under the **Implicit grant and hybrid flows** section, locate the **ID tokens** checkbox.  
3. Ensure that the **ID tokens (Used for implicit and hybrid flows)** box is checked.  
4. Click **Save** to apply the changes.  

Enabling ID tokens allows Composable to securely authenticate users via Azure AD and retrieve identity claims needed for login and registration.  

## Step 4: Update Composable's Web.config

Modify the `Web.config` file in Composable by adding or updating the following keys:

```xml
<configuration>
  <appSettings>
    <add key="AzureADAuthEnabled" value="True"/>
    <add key="AzureADAuthAutoApprove" value="True"/>
    <add key="AzureADAuthClientId" value="xxguidxx"/>
    <add key="AzureADAuthTenantId" value="xxguidxx"/>
  </appSettings>
</configuration>

Key Descriptions:
- AzureADAuthClientId: Corresponds to the Application (Client ID) in the Azure App Registration Overview page.
- AzureADAuthTenantId: Corresponds to the Directory (Tenant ID) in the Azure App Registration Overview page.
- AzureADAuthAutoApprove:
- - If set to True, users who self-register will be automatically approved.
- - If set to False, an administrator must manually approve the account before the user can log in.
Once these configurations are set, Azure AD authentication will be enabled for Composable.
