---
title: Composable Docs
summary: Technical Documentation for the Composable DataOps Platform
authors:
    - Composable Analytics, Inc.
date: 2014-08-12
some_url: https://docs.composable.ai
---

# Composable DataOps Platform

Composable DataOps Platform is a full-stack intelligent data operations platform with built-in services for data orchestration, automation and analytics. It accelerates data engineering, preparation and analysis. Composable is built as a modern, native cloud application, with a highly scalable – *composable* – architecture.

The platform is available in three editions, based on the deployment model.

## Editions & Deployment

### Composable Enterprise

Composable Enterprise is available as an on-premise solution or as a managed cloud instance for the enterprise. With no third-party dependencies required, Composable can be deployed behind the corporate firewall or even on air-gapped, physically isolated servers.

### Composable Cloud

Composable Cloud is available on all three major public clouds, including Azure, AWS and Google Cloud Platform.

Composable is a native cloud application, optimized for a cloud computing architecture. The platform can be deployed on an existing cloud infrastructure, configured for multi-machine and scale-out deployments. On the cloud, Composable can be scaled vertically by simply adding more compute and storage nodes, and scaled horizontally by adding multiple resources to an existing compute node.

### Composable Edge

For tactical edge applications, requiring just-in-time analytics, Composable can be configured and deployed to optimize the minimal compute and storage resources available.

Please consult with us at [support@composable.ai](mailto:support@composable.ai) for further information on enterprise, cloud and edge deployments.