---
title: Composable Docs
summary: Technical Documentation for the Composable DataOps Platform
authors:
    - Composable Analytics, Inc.
date: 2014-08-12
some_url: https://docs.composable.ai
---

# Overview

Structured Query Language (SQL) is a programming language used to manage and manipulate data stored in relational databases. It is a standard language for interacting with databases and is used by many businesses and organizations to store, retrieve, and analyze data in a structured and organized way.

SQL is an important programming language to learn because it is widely used in many different types of systems and applications to manage and manipulate data. SQL has gained widespread popularity among data professionals for several reasons:

* It is a standard language: SQL is a standardized language that is used by many different database management systems (DBMS) and is supported by many programming languages. This means that it is widely supported and used across a wide range of systems, making it an important language to know.

* It is used in many different industries: SQL is used in many different industries, including finance, healthcare, retail, and technology. Knowing SQL can be a valuable skill for anyone working in these industries or looking to work in them in the future.

* It is used to manage large datasets: SQL is particularly well-suited for managing and analyzing large datasets. It allows you to quickly and efficiently retrieve and analyze data from a database, which can be useful for data analysis and decision-making.

* It is easy to learn: SQL is a relatively easy language to learn, especially compared to other programming languages. It has a simple and straightforward syntax, and there are many resources available to help you learn it.

# SQL and DataOps

In the DataOps context, SQL is often used to perform the following tasks:

* Extracting and transforming data: SQL can be used to extract data from multiple sources, such as flat files, databases, and APIs, and transform it into a format that is suitable for analysis.

* Cleansing data: SQL can be used to identify and correct errors and inconsistencies in data. For example, you might use SQL to identify and correct invalid or missing values, or to standardize data formats.

* Loading and storing data: SQL can be used to load and store data in a database, data warehouse or data lake, where it can be easily queried and analyzed.

* Integrating data systems and applications: SQL can be used to integrate data from multiple sources, such as databases, flat files, and APIs, and to ensure that the data is consistent and accurate.

* Querying and analyzing data: SQL provides a wide range of functions and operators that can be used to query and analyze data. For example, you can use SQL to calculate aggregates, such as sums and averages, and to filter and sort data based on specific criteria.

* Visualizing data: SQL can be used to generate tables and charts that can be used to visualize and communicate data insights.

SQL is an important tool for data-intensive applications because it allows you to efficiently manage and analyze large datasets and extract insights from them. It is widely used in many different industries and has many practical applications for managing and analyzing data.

# SQL Introduction

SQL is a declarative language, which means that you specify what you want to accomplish, but not how to do it. This is in contrast to imperative languages, which specify both the goal and the steps to achieve it.

SQL allows you to perform a wide range of tasks, including:

* Creating and modifying tables and other database structures
* Inserting, updating, and deleting data in a database
* Querying a database to retrieve specific data
* Setting permissions and access controls on database objects

SQL is used in many popular relational database management systems (RDBMS), such as MySQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server. It is also used in many other types of systems that store and manage data, such as spreadsheet software and data warehouses.

# Basic SQL Commands

Some example SQL commands include:

* `SELECT`: Used to retrieve data from a database.
* `INSERT INTO`: Used to insert new data into a database.
* `UPDATE`: Used to modify existing data in a database.
* `DELETE FROM`: Used to delete data from a database.
* `CREATE TABLE`: Used to create a new table in a database.
* `ALTER TABLE`: Used to modify the structure of an existing table.